README.md, before:

# unicorns-ai-playground
This is a test repo for use with some tech folks to play with AI.

# Unicorns AI Playground

This repository is a sandbox for experimenting with **Dev Containers** and exploring **AI connectivity** using Python libraries. It is designed to help developers learn and experiment with containerized development environments while integrating AI tools and frameworks.

## Features

- **Dev Containers**: Pre-configured development environment using Docker and Visual Studio Code's Dev Containers.
- **Python Environment**: Includes Python setup with dependencies managed via `requirements.txt`.
- **OpenSearch Integration**: Automatically pulls and runs an OpenSearch container for testing AI-related data indexing and search capabilities.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed and running.
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers).

### Setup Instructions

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/unicorns-ai-playground.git
   cd unicorns-ai-playground
1. Open the repository in Visual Studio Code.
1. When prompted, reopen the project in the Dev Container.
1. The container will automatically:
    1. Set up a Python environment.
    1. Pull and run an OpenSearch container.
1. Validate the setup by running:
    ```bash
    python validate_container.py
You should see the message: `Dev container validation test successful!`

## Project Structure
```
unicorns-ai-playground/
├── .devcontainer/          # Dev Container configuration files
│   └── devcontainer.json   # Main configuration for the Dev Container
├── .github/
│   └── dependabot.yml      # Configuration for Dependabot updates
├── Dockerfile              # Dockerfile for building the Python environment
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
├── validate_container.py   # Script to validate the container setup
├── LICENSE                 # License file
├── README.md               # Project documentation
└── .gitignore              # Git ignore rules
```

## Using OpenSearch
The Dev Container automatically pulls and runs an OpenSearch instance. You can access it locally at:

API Endpoint: http://localhost:9200
Dashboard: http://localhost:9600
Default <vscode_annotation details='%5B%7B%22title%22%3A%22hardcoded-credentials%22%2C%22description%22%3A%22Embedding%20credentials%20in%20source%20code%20risks%20unauthorized%20access%22%7D%5D'> credentials</vscode_annotation>admin:
```
Username: admin
Password: <You-Replaced-Password>
```

## Contributing
This project is intended for learning and experimentation. Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Add credential warning to clarify these are not to be used in Production

README.md, after:

# unicorns-ai-playground
This is a test repo for use with some tech folks to play with AI.

# Unicorns AI Playground

This repository is a sandbox for experimenting with **Dev Containers** and exploring **AI connectivity** using Python libraries. It is designed to help developers learn and experiment with containerized development environments while integrating AI tools and frameworks.

## Features

- **Dev Containers**: Pre-configured development environment using Docker and Visual Studio Code's Dev Containers.
- **Python Environment**: Includes Python setup with dependencies managed via `requirements.txt`.
- **OpenSearch Integration**: Automatically pulls and runs an OpenSearch container for testing AI-related data indexing and search capabilities.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installed and running.
- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers).

### Setup Instructions

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/unicorns-ai-playground.git
   cd unicorns-ai-playground
1. Open the repository in Visual Studio Code.
1. When prompted, reopen the project in the Dev Container.
1. The container will automatically:
    1. Set up a Python environment.
    1. Pull and run an OpenSearch container.
1. Validate the setup by running:
    ```bash
    python validate_container.py
You should see the message: `Dev container validation test successful!`

## Project Structure
```
unicorns-ai-playground/
├── .devcontainer/          # Dev Container configuration files
│   └── devcontainer.json   # Main configuration for the Dev Container
├── .github/
│   └── dependabot.yml      # Configuration for Dependabot updates
├── Dockerfile              # Dockerfile for building the Python environment
├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
├── validate_container.py   # Script to validate the container setup
├── LICENSE                 # License file
├── README.md               # Project documentation
└── .gitignore              # Git ignore rules
```

## Using OpenSearch
The Dev Container automatically pulls and runs an OpenSearch instance. You can access it locally at:

API Endpoint: http://localhost:9200
Dashboard: http://localhost:9600
Default <vscode_annotation details='%5B%7B%22title%22%3A%22hardcoded-credentials%22%2C%22description%22%3A%22Embedding%20credentials%20in%20source%20code%20risks%20unauthorized%20access%22%7D%5D'> credentials</vscode_annotation>admin:
```
Username: admin
Password: <You-Replaced-Password>
```
**Warning:** These credentials are for development and testing purposes only. Replace them with secure credentials before deploying to production.

## Contributing
This project is intended for learning and experimentation. Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
